So friends, today I will tell you that
your vehicle gets stolen and you face
problem in getting the claim, that means you
need insurance for your vehicle, whether it is a bike, a car
or any other type of vehicle
and it gets stolen and you make a
claim to the insurance company but there is
problem in getting the claim, the insurance company makes some excuse,
creates some problem,
so how will you do it,
what is its legal process, I will discuss it in detail,
if you have any type of
bike, car or any other vehicle, then it is
important for you to watch this video, it is possible that your vehicle may not have been
stolen, but if this happens in future, then
how will you be able to claim it
legally, or if this happens to someone, then
you can inform him, so it is
very important for you to be aware, you must be
aware that there are
two types of insurance for any vehicle, first
party insurance and third party
insurance, under the Motor Vehicle
Act applicable in India, it is mandatory for all the vehicles running in the country, be it a
car, truck or any vehicle, to get it
insured,
so there are two types of insurance
I have told you about first party
insurance and third party insurance. So
what happens in third party insurance is
that if your car collides with another car
or someone gets injured because of your car, then the insurance amount
in third party insurance is given to the person
whose car is damaged
or if someone gets injured, then a
claim is made by him and
he gets the insurance amount, the
process of which is different, but in
first party insurance, if the
car owner gets into an accident, the car gets into an
accident,
the person
driving the car gets into an accident or the
car gets stolen, then
you can make a claim in any situation. I will
give you all the information and will
explain it clearly. I just request you to
like this video. There is a like
button below, touch it and apply, the rest
we are coming straight here. See what happens,
I told you about both types of insurance, so first party insurance is Jain
Suresh, it is a little expensive,
in this it is the insurance of the car, the person
driving the car.  It is insured for a little while if
your car meets with an accident, there is a
cost to that as well, if the car is stolen, then that is
also insured, then the
insurance covers it.
What happens in first party insurance is that
your car is stolen or your
car is robbed, meaning someone snatched
your car, looted it, and drove away with your car, then what do
you have to do in that situation, if there is a
police outpost in that area,
you have to go there and
file a report there, you have to
file a report there. Now what happens is that
you must have often seen that in cases of beard, when you
file a report in the
police station, what happens is that the
police hesitates and does
not register the report quickly, but you have to
file a report. When the police reports or does
not register the report, the
police first investigates at their level the information you
give, any application, then they
investigate it as per their own
understanding, when they feel
that the car has not been found, the car has not been recovered,
nothing has been found, if the car is found, if they find out, then they
hand it over to you.  It is handed
over to you after some legal process
but the vehicle is not recovered then
what does the police do, they register your report, they
register a report under the Code of Criminal Procedure 154 but
what happens is they have tried before also, they
try again, the police investigates, they
find out, they try as much as they can
but still the vehicle is
not recovered, they do not know
who has stolen it, they do
not get any idea so what does the police do
in the end when the vehicle is not found, the
police tries and gets tired, then the
police gives a closure report in this case, now
when your closure report goes to the court
and after that you get the court order,
after this whole process is done,
you have to go to the insurance company with the given report and the court order, from
where you will
find its branch in your insurance office and there
you have to click, when you
make a claim then the insurance company gives an application for the claim, there is
not much process for this, when you get the closure report, the
court order,
you get a simple application with these two
You have to give a simple application by writing it
or there is a format of Prince company, after doing that
you will submit it there,
after that the insurance company starts the process on it, the
insurance company, following the order of the court,
starts the process of giving your claim, the
relationship of both an insurance company and the vehicle owner is that of a
service provider and a customer, that is why the
Consumer Protection Act 2019
is applicable in this case, friends, apart from this, if you have
any question in your mind, if you want to ask something, if you want to
know something, if something is left out in this video, then
you can write in the comment box,
I can answer it in my video,
if you are new to my channel, if it is the first
time then subscribe to this channel, there is
Baghelkhandi, press that too, but first
you have subscribed, I am grateful for that,
thank you friends, I will meet you
in the new video with a new topic, till then thank you, thank you
Jai Hind friends